Study coverage (in years): 2018-2021


ZIP Code: ZIP code of the geographic region in California.
FAIR Plan Units: Number of housing units enrolled in the California FAIR Plan.
% FAIR Plan Units: Percentage of total housing units in a ZIP enrolled in the FAIR Plan.
Total Exposure ($): Total $ value of underwritten FAIR Plan policies
% Change - Claims (Fire and Smoke): Percentage change in fire and smoke-related claims over time.
% Change - Earned Premiums: Percentage change in total earned premiums for insurers.
% Change - Expiring Policies: Percentage change in the number of expiring policies.
% Change - Losses (Fire and Smoke): Percentage change in monetary losses due to fire and smoke.
% Change - New Policies: Percentage change in new insurance policies issued.
% Change - Nonrenewed Policies: Percentage change in policies not renewed overall.
% Change - Nonrenewed Policies (by Company): Percentage change in nonrenewals initiated by insurance companies.
% Change - Nonrenewed Policies (by Owner): Percentage change in nonrenewals initiated by policyholders.
% Change - Renewed Policies: Percentage change in number of renewed policies.
% Change - Zillow Home Value: Percentage change in Zillow-estimated home values.
% Change Median Income: Percentage change in median household income.
% Change White-only Pop: Percentage change in non-Hispanic white population percentage.
% Market Units: Percentage of units in the traditional insurance market.
% Nonrenewed Policies: Percentage of expiring policies that were not renewed.
% Nonrenewed Policies (by Company): Percentage of nonrenewals initiated by the insurer.
% Nonrenewed Policies (by Owner): Percentage of nonrenewals initiated by the policyholder.
All Disasters 10y: Count of state declared disasters in past 10 years.
All Disasters 1y: Count of state declared disasters in past year.
All Disasters 3y: Count of state declared disasters in past 3 years.
All Disasters 5y: Count of state declaredl disasters in past 5 years.
Avg % White-only Pop: Average percentage of white population over the study period.
Avg Median Income: Average median income over the study period.
Claims (Fire and Smoke): Total number of claims related to fire and smoke.
Earned Premium ($): Total insurance premiums earned by insurers.
Expiring Policies: Total number of policies set to expire over the study period.
Fire Disasters 10y: Count of fire-specific disasters in past 10 years.
Fire Disasters 1y: Fire-specific disasters in past year.
Fire Disasters 3y: Fire-specific disasters in past 3 years.
Fire Disasters 5y: Fire-specific disasters in past 5 years.
Housing Units: Total number of housing units in a given ZIP code according to Census.
Losses (Fire and Smoke) ($): Total monetary losses paid by the insurance companies due to fire and smoke.
Median Gross Rent ($): Median gross rent in dollars.
Median Home Value - Census ($): Home value from Census data.
Median Owner Cost ($): Monthly owner cost excluding mortgage.
New Policies: Number of new insurance policies issued.
Nonrenewed Policies: Number of policies not renewed.
Nonrenewed Policies (by Company): Number of policies not renewed by insurer.
Nonrenewed Policies (by Owner): Number of policies not renewed by homeowner.
Renewed Policies: Number of policies that were renewed.
Total Res Units: Number of residential units in FAIR plan data.
Voluntary Market Units: Units covered by traditional insurance.
Zillow Home Value 2018 ($): Zillow Housing Value Index denoting typical home value for 2018.
Zillow Home Value 2019 ($): Zillow Housing Value Index denoting typical home value for 2019.
Zillow Home Value 2020 ($): Zillow Housing Value Index denoting typical home value for 2020.
Zillow Home Value 2021 ($): Zillow Housing Value Index denoting typical home value for 2021.
Zillow Mean Home Value ($): Average Zillow home value over study period.
Losses to Premium Ratio: Ratio of paid losses to earned premiums.
Renewed to Nonrenewed Ratio: Ratio of number of renewed policies to nonrenewed ones.
New and Renewed to Nonrenewed Ratio: Ratio of number of new+renewed policies to nonrenewed ones.
New and Renewed to Total Units Ratio: Ratio of housing units that are newly insured or renewed to total residential units.
Log of Average Median Income: Log-transformed average median income.
Housing Value to Median Income Ratio: Ratio of home value to median income.
Housing Value to Log Median Income Ratio: Ratio of home value to log income.
Fire Smoke Claims to Total Units Ratio: Number of fire and smoke claims divided by total housing units.
New and Renewed to Nonrenewed and Income Growth Product: Product of ratio of number of insurance covered residential units to total units and income growth
New and Renewed to Nonrenewed and Income Growth Ratio: Ratio of number of insurance covered residential units to total units and income growth
Losses to Company Nonrenewed Ratio: Losses relative to company-initiated nonrenewals.
Losses to Owner Nonrenewed Ratio: Losses relative to owner-initiated nonrenewals.
Change in Renewed to Income Growth Ratio: Change in renewal rates relative to income growth.
Change in Nonrenewed to Income Growth Ratio: Change in nonrenewals relative to income growth.
Growth in Losses to All Disasters 3yr Ratio: Loss growth vs. all disasters (3 years).
Growth in Losses to All Disasters 5yr Ratio: Loss growth vs. all disasters (5 years).
Growth in Losses to All Disasters 10yr Ratio: Loss growth vs. all disasters (10 years).
Growth in Losses to Fire Disasters 3yr Ratio: Loss growth vs. fire disasters (3 years).
Growth in Losses to Fire Disasters 5yr Ratio: Loss growth vs. fire disasters (5 years).
Growth in Losses to Fire Disasters 10yr Ratio: Loss growth vs. fire disasters (10 years).
Premium to Exposure Ratio: Premiums as a fraction of exposure.
Nonrenewal Rate: Rate at which policies are not renewed.
Loss Burden per Unit: Losses paid by insurance companies per housing unit.
Loss Burden per Exposure: Losses paid by insurance companies as a share of total exposure.
Premium Adequacy: Premiums relative to paid losses.
Renewal Resilience: Proportion of policies successfully renewed.